The Joe Rogan experience in the problems that men have are different than the
problems those guys think men have.
Right.
Um,
so for instance,
we did a segment on a stereotype.
We had an episode on stereotypes,
um,
called Adam ruins a sitcom where,
uh,
we talked about different,
you know,
we,
we talked about stereotypes via,
you know,
sort of,
uh,
cheesy 80 sitcom.
I had lost stereotypes in it.
So you've got the stereotypical black kid,
you got stairs,
you can be an Asian kid.
What does name,
no,
we didn't do that.
Well,
there's only three acts on the show,
you know what I mean?
I wish we could on that and women and,
and all sorts of things.
But we,
and we had a stereotypical dad,
you know,
like a home improvement type dad,
and,
uh,
what we talked about is like those,
there are ways that men are being harmed by the sort of narrow idea of what a
man is.
You know,
um,
for instance,
uh,
men have a very high suicide rate,
right?
Um,
and,
uh,
specifically,
loneliness is a health problem for men,
for like older men.
Like take my dad,
right?
My Dad's a about 65.
He doesn't have a friend,
you know,
I hope he doesn't hear this,
but,
um,
you know,
yeah.
Like he,
he has like work colleagues.
He's got my mom,
you know,
he's got me,
he's got,
I'm sure he's got people he's friendly with,
you know what I mean,
but doesn't have a best friend,
you know,
who does it,
who comes over to watch,
you know,
the red sox with them.
That's terrifying to me.
Yeah.
And the thing is,
loneliness is associated with early death,
you know,
and with disease,
right.
And like,
when you look at the way that we bring up men,
men are socialized to not have close relationships with each other.
You know,
really.
Yeah.
I mean like,
well,
like,
uh,
we talk about,
from an early age,
we talked about this briefly on the show,
but we could have gone into a whole episode on it from an early age.
Uh,
researchers have found this,
that,
uh,
little boys,
when they're very young,
uh,
are very close with foreign,
very close friendships that are physical friends with they hug,
you know,
they'll kiss,
they'll,
you know,
have kids on the street,
you know what I mean?
They'll have physical,
close friendships like that.
And then they reach an age where that starts to become not okay,
right.
Um,
where it becomes,
oh,
that's not how boys act.
Right.
And girls are still doing that with their friends.
They're still holding hands with their friends.
You know,
there's still,
uh,
you know,
having close relationships like that and boys started to start to build a little
bit of diff distance,
you know,
and you know,
it's easy to say,
well,
when you're a teenager,
that's because there's a stigma against being gay.
And like,
we don't want to appear gay,
but it happens even younger than like,
kids would even have a notion of that,
you know?
So it really seems to be a deep down way that we bring up boys of like,
Hey,
don't get too close to each other.
You know what I mean?
That's a little weird.
It's just a little weird for boys to do that,
you know,
and we do that.
We do it from a young age is very subtle,
um,
and very subtle,
but it's universal.
I mean,
in America it seems to be,
um,
and uh,
you know,
I,
uh,
yeah,
I've even felt that myself.
Like I've often had an easier time having close,
close relationships with,
uh,
women rather than men.
You as friendships.
Yeah.
As friendships.
Man,
I don't,
just in terms of who I talked with about my relationships and stuff.
Yeah.
Good friendships with women mostly that are comics,
but,
um,
almost all my good friends.
Yeah,
guys,
I have a lot of good friends.
I mean,
you're lucky if that's the case.
I certainly am.
But there's that thing of having a little bit of distance from your male
friends,
you know,
of like not being,
of not getting really into it emotionally,
you know,
look,
if you don't feel that way,
that's fine.
I felt that myself,
and I'm sure results in some people held on boats.
You felt that some people feel it.
I'm sure I don't experience that.
You know,
most of my friends that I know have good male friends and they were pretty tight
with people.
Well,
when,
uh,
the,
the point is that like there is a trend,
especially in older age,
right?
Yeah.
And my dad's name
buddy,
whether it's a male or a female,
when you get older and you don't have any friends,
that's a bad thing.
Well,
so demo demographically we know that that happens to men more than women,
right?
That the man my dad's age is more likely to have less friends than a woman my
mom's age.
Um,
I mean I think that's one of those things where I would hesitate to make a big
conclusion.
But I mean,
I would say I think we can draw a link between that and you know,
that man are sort of like socialized to not have these close friendships,
but so that is a serious problem that men have that men face.
Right.
Um,
another one we talk about is stuff like,
you know,
drinking and smoking for instance.
Those are behaviors that are much more pushed on that.
And you know,
those are much more advertised towards men,
right?
And those are dangerous,
Those are like hurt you physically and can lead to an early death,
right?
Those are,
those can lead to bad health outcomes.
And so those are things that men face that are different than the challenges
that women face and can result in bad health outcomes for us.
You know,
and it's so funny how this sort of like men's rights people,
you know,
they're,
they don't talk about that stuff quite as much.
They talk about,
you know,
violence and,
and,
um,
you know,
uh,
people being hurt at work and stuff like that.
Like man having dangerous occupations.
And that's,
and that stuff true is true as well.
But like these are the more subtle ways that,
you know,
men are,
uh,
are hurt by this sort of narrow expectations of what a man is that we put on
men.
Hey,
men are like this.
You should be like this,
you know?
And some of those things hurt men.
Do you think we still do that though?
Yeah.
We'll still put in narrow expectations of what man,
I totally,
I totally agree.
They do.
I think we might be lucky here in la,
you know,
because we can sort of like live any way that we choose.
I mean,
you clearly live exactly how you want to live,
which is great.
Uh,
you know,
uh,
and,
and I,
I get to as well.
Uh,
but I think that,
uh,
you know,
we're,
we're lucky in that we're so self actualized,
you know what I mean?
That,
that maybe we face a little bit less pressure than,
than you know,
your average Joe across the country.
Yeah.
But I don't know of anyone who's putting pressure on men to not be friendly with
other men.
That seems so ridiculous to me to deny camaraderie.
Obviously in the military it's a huge aspect of military service as the
Brotherhood,
but these guys form with each other.
And that's about,
uh,
you know,
if you want to talk about traditional male values,
that's about manly a things a person can do,
right.
Serve their country
very much.
So.
Um,
but are like men for instance,
encouraged to be emotionally vulnerable with,
uh,
with their friends for instance.
Like I think that's something that's like dumb
do it.
They're going to bring it up when you argue.
Yeah.
And so that's,
so that's the thing.
There's that,
there's a level of intimacy that were,
that were like,
and that's sort of intimacy is what leads to long friendships,
you know,
that really,
really last,
right?
It's a balancing act,
that thing because I think there's,
there is intimacy and then there's also guys who were just being a bitch and
they need to learn how to man up.
Like school things are real things or real,
it is real to be intimate and to be vulnerable and to explain how you feel.
But then sometimes you shouldn't be just fucking complaining about things.
You should figure your life out and man the fuck up and go do something.
And it's not necessarily you being emotionally vulnerable as you like to say it
in such a,
uh,
a normalizing way.
It might,
it might just be being a bitch.
It's Paul too in this battle.
When you say that you put a little pressure on on man at all to yes,
I put pressure on men.
You are,
maybe you're the one putting a little pressure on us.
They need some pressure.
I think most men need just a little bit of a motivational shove in the general
direction of success and happiness.
And a lot of that is overcoming laziness and him implying or,
uh,
applying some discipline to your life.
I think those things are very manually attributes that turn out to actually be
good for you.
Uh,
you know,
I think there's a lot of,
I don't disagree with you about,
about some of those aspects being good for you.
Um,
let,
let me just give one other example.
Um,
and I'm blanking on the name of this podcast.
I can,
I can look it up if you want,
but,
um,
a very wonderful podcasts about philosophy.
Um,
the last five as this,
uh,
no,
I love philosophize.
This,
it's a different one here.
I'll look up what it was,
um,
as I'm talking to you about it,
but I'm really wonderful podcast.
Uh,
where,
uh,
they were talking to this guy who was in the military,
um,
and,
uh,
his PTSD,
right?
And he was talking about how the idea of,
of be a man,
right.
Was just a phrase that he would hear a lot in the military,
right?
Um,
and,
oh,
it's called high nation is the name of the podcast.
And there's an episode called Bmn hyphenation really wonderful podcast about
philosophy.
Um,
and,
uh,
it was talking about that idea of be a man,
right?
What does that mean in,
in the military?
And,
and look,
I'm just repeating what was in the podcast.
I have no military experience myself.
I don't want to claim too,
but,
um,
uh,
and you know,
that means sort of like overcome adversity,
right?
Don't complain too much,
If you have a problem,
solve it yourself kind of thing.
Right?
And he talked about,
and they also talked with the medical professionals who said the same thing,
that that idea,
um,
can,
doesn't give me the tools they need to deal with PTSD.
Right.
And can actually exacerbate PTSD because it means that they're not trained how
to reach out for help for those problems.
And so on situation,
I think,
oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
It's a different example of,
of,
of just a way that that sort of narrow idea BIA man being a man means this.
A real man would do this,
right?
That does,
that works in some situations maybe that works when you're,
you know,
in a Foxhole,
right.
Um,
it doesn't work so well when you're out of it.
Right.
And so that's a narrow idea that can lead to a bad apple,
I'm sure.
But that's basically what we were just saying,
that you know,
you should be emotionally vulnerable and know how to express yourself with your
friends and be honest and true about how you feel about things.
But you all should know when you're being a bitch.
Both of those things are real.
Fair enough.
If you're on a hike with a friend and he has to stop every five minutes because
his foot hurts,
like,
come on man,
my foot hurts to just fucking walk.
You're walking fine.
I completely agree with you.
I don't think this is worth it.
I mean,
it just is not what I had in mind when we started hiking.
That guys beat a bitch,
right?
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
He needs to man the fuck up.
Right.
But let me,
but I know you're hesitant to say,
man,
the fuck up because it was a woman.
What would you say you'd say toughen up,
just soldier on.
What would you say?
Well,
I don't think that the reason I'm hesitant to use that word is I don't think
that being tough is exclusively a male.
That's why if you're a woman,
what would you say?
We,
you say tough enough.
Yeah.
Guess I went in the same situation.
You gotta toughen up.
You have to deal with it.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Press on.
Yeah.
But men like to,
we like to equate that to one of our best attributes being a fucking man.
Cause I'm a fuck with the is we'll say,
what if you're,
what if you're uh,
uh,
on that walk with,
on that hike with a friend and your friend is legit afraid of hikes I've been on
in France on hikes.
We've,
I'm sorry,
I didn't said hikes heights.
Right.
I'm sorry.
You can't be hiking with that dude.
And I went on a hike.
I went on a hike with a friend.
My friend had it.
We were in Zion National Park,
which has a very narrow Utah.
Yeah.
My friend had had a panic attack.
Right.
Because,
because of the hike and it was,
and it was,
you know,
um,
and that's legit.
Right.
And thank God he was able,
he felt able to share it with me.
Right.
But if we,
you know,
so that's,
so that's the balancing act of creating an environment where you're not,
hey,
yeah,
don't complain about your foot,
but hey,
if you're really in distress,
like you can share that with me.
And some men feel that they can't do that.
And I remember when I was younger,
you know,
feeling well,
I want to,
I really have this problem,
but I can't express that to my friends because they're going to make fun of me.
Right.
Um,
and that sucks.
And so my goal is to,
and what that segment that we did about manliness was about,
um,
was saying,
hey,
if you,
uh,
if you're a man and being a man to you,
it means,
you know,
being confident,
being assertive and stuff like that.
Great qualities,
not that qualities of,
all right,
but we want to expand the notion of manliness.
So it includes all the different ways that one can be a man,
right?
Um,
uh,
that that is,
it's as wide as possible.
Right?
So because of the problem was going to shut it down,
the expression manliness,
right.
That's the problem.
Cause manliness like instantly becomes handsome,
aggressive,
you know,
muscular,
all cultural idea of a man.
And womanliness is more like soft and kind.
Ooh.
You know,
you don't think of it sexually,
right?
When see or you think of womanliness isn't really a word that's used,
but if it was,
yeah.
Womanly that,
that those are their cultural ideas that we associate with those things.
Right.
But I,
so,
so let me just give you my example.
I,
uh,
personally I love taking care of other people,
right.
With me and my,
me and my girlfriend been together 10 years.
Um,
one of the main things I love to do in our relationship is I really like cooking
for her.
You know what I mean?
I like taking care of her.
That's like something that I enjoy.
Right.
Um,
uh,
that's the part of my manliness.
That's like how I am a man.
You look what I'm invited to,
good.
Well Food and you can sit down and do something for and cook for.
You can associate it with,
yeah.
Pr Providing,
providing goes back to that,
you know,
classic sort of,
uh,
Ma,
you know,
manly value.
You can go in there with that.
I'm not even saying in that sense.
Yeah.
There's nothing wrong with that word,
but in that sense you wanted
give,
yeah,
exactly.
And that's not a value that I was brought up with of like that's a manly thing
to do,
right.
Is to like,
be kind and be nurturing,
you know what I mean?
Um,
but,
uh,
it's not that I really,
that that really means a lot to me.
Yeah.
W it wasn't what I was brought up with.
Um,
and,
uh,
so to me it's important to like expand,
you know,
my notion of what it was really a big deal for me to like realize that that was
part of what being a man was to me.
Um,
and I noticed that like,
you know,
uh,
for instance,
um,
like,
let's just take the example of like,
you know,
kids entertainment,
like growing up,
you know,
like kids cartoons and stuff like that.
Like the female characters are the ones who are taking care of other people and
the male characters are the ones who are kicking ass.
Right.
And I like kicking ass sometimes too,
but I realized at one point I was like,
oh,
I didn't have like models of that as a kid of like,
here's a man who takes care of other people emotionally or you know,
uh,
or in a caring way,
you know,
but to fill,
uh,
Dr Phil is,
he does it a little bit.
Does it,
does I see what you're saying?
Yeah.
I mean,
whenever you have a label,
especially a narrow label,
yeah,
it's a problem.
You know,
and I think,
uh,
the,
the idea of manliness or like what it entails and the problems that people would
have about that on the outside,
it's almost always problems that are being imposed on them,
like,
or the ideas that are being imposed on them where people who don't like the way
they live or don't like who they are or want to mock who they are,
how they live.
So if someone's too emotional,
if someone's too introverted,
instead of celebrating that and all that guy's different.
Cool.
Instead of that,
it's the bully a mocking and shitting on them.
The jock type behavior.
Yeah.
We associated with being the negative aspect of masculinity,
total toxic masculinity is,
which is the phrase that gets tossed around.
But I think this is,
um,
you know,
this is a shitty humans.
I agree.
You know,
I mean really where the
problem is not specific to,
it's not specific to men,
right?
It's,
it's everybody.
But let me give you one more example just to get back to what you're talking
about,
about body type and what people are attracted to.
I read this wonderful,
uh,
advice column.
Um,
uh,
it's this guy who is,
this guy doesn't device.
It's got a kind of silly names,
Dr Nerd love.
Um,
but he's done a really good advice column and this dude wrote in and said,
Hey,
I'm with a woman.
She's,
um,
you know,
a little bit bigger of a Gal,
then I've dated in the past.
I really am into her.
She's so cool,
but she's not my type.
I'm not normally into women like this.
And that bothers me that she's not my type.
Right.
Even though I'm into her so much,
she's not my type.
What do I do about that?
She's not my type.
And I loved this guy's answer.
He wrote back and he said,
dude,
she's your fucking type.
You like her,
right?
You're into her.
You think she's a sexy woman,
right?
The problem is you are brought up in a world where it's not okay for men to like
women like that.
It's not okay to like women who are her size and you've,
you've ingested at your whole life and now you're hating yourself because you
are told something that about what's okay to,
for you to like and what's not okay for you to like.
And I really related to that,
you know,
because I remember feeling that way about girls.
I dated like,
hold on a sec.
Oh,
I'm into her so much,
but oh wait,
is she not?
Is she not like attractive?
Right?
Am I wrong to be dating her because she doesn't fit what I,
you know,
the sort of like set of PR parameters for what an attractive woman is.
Right?
And so when you talk about what people say,
what people say,
they're attractive.
If you ask any woman,
wouldn't she say she's attracted to this kind of man?
If he asked any man wouldn't say she's attracted to that kind of woman.
Yeah,
they might say that.
Right.
But deep down do they maybe have a desire that is not being,
you know,
that they,
that they've been told is wrong their whole lives.
Right.
Um,
I really related to that,
I was like,
man,
that is really a good point.
I have been told that my whole life and it has,
I've allowed it to control who I'm attracted to to a certain extent,
you know?
And that's a mental prison that I want to get out of,
you know,
and you know,
now I have the benefit.
I'm a little bit older,
you know,
and I feel like I'm in less mental prisons that I used to be.
I feel like you're a known mental prisons at all at all.
I feel like a lot of your listeners,
you know,
I've have broken out of them,
but especially I think back about like when I was 16 years old and yeah,
I,
you know,
you're swimming in that shit and you don't know to question at yet a lot of the
time.
And that's what our show is about,
is getting people to question those assumptions and those things that you're
being told without even realizing you're being told them.